\input texinfo @c -*-texinfo-*-
@comment %**start of header
@setfilename spell.info
@include version.texi
@settitle GNU Spell @value{VERSION}

@c Combine indices.
@syncodeindex ky cp
@syncodeindex pg cp
@syncodeindex tp cp
@defcodeindex op
@syncodeindex op cp
@syncodeindex vr cp
@comment %**end of header
@copying
This manual is for GNU Spell (version @value{VERSION}, @value{UPDATED}),
a clone of Unix @command{spell}..

Copyright @copyright{} 1996,2010 Free Software Foundation, Inc.

@quotation
Permission is granted to copy, distribute and/or modify this document
under the terms of the GNU Free Documentation License, Version 1.3 or
any later version published by the Free Software Foundation; with no
Invariant Sections, with no Front-Cover Texts, and with no Back-Cover
Texts.  A copy of the license is included in the section entitled
``GNU Free Documentation License''.
@end quotation
@end copying

@dircategory Text creation and manipulation
@direntry
* spell: (spell).               prints each misspelled word.
@end direntry

@titlepage
@title GNU Spell
@subtitle Unix spell clone
@subtitle for version @value{VERSION}, @value{UPDATED}
@author Thomas Morgan et al.
@page
@vskip 0pt plus 1filll
@insertcopying
@end titlepage

@contents

@ifnottex
@node Top
@top spell

This manual is for GNU Spell (version @value{VERSION}, @value{UPDATED}).

@insertcopying
@end ifnottex

@menu
* Introduction::	Introduction.
* Invoking Spell::	How to run Spell.
* Example::             An example run.
* Problems::		Reporting bugs.
* Copying::             License terms for this manual.
* Index::		Combined index.
@end menu

@node Introduction
@chapter Introduction

@cindex overview

GNU Spell is a spell checking program which prints each misspelled word
on a line of its own.  It is designed as a clone of the standard Unix
@command{spell} program, and implemented as a wrapper for Ispell.  Spell
accepts as its arguments a list of files to read from.  Within that
list, the magical file name @samp{-} causes Spell to read from standard
input.  In addition, when called with no file name arguments, Spell
assumes that it should process standard input.

Spell is most useful when used in conjunction with other programs,
because its output is minimalistic.  Human users are usually more
comfortable with verbose output.  @inforef{Top, The Ispell Manual,
ispell}, for an screen-oriented spelling checker.

@node Invoking Spell
@chapter Invoking @command{spell}
@cindex invoking
@cindex version
@cindex options
@cindex usage
@cindex help
@cindex getting help

The format for running GNU Spell is:

@example
spell [@var{option}]@dots{} [@var{file}]@dots{}
@end example

Spell supports the following options:

@table @samp
@item --version
@itemx -V
Print the version number of Spell on the standard error output and then
exit.

@item --british
@itemx -b
Use the British dictionary rather than American.  Unavailable unless
this dictionary was installed with Ispell.

@item --dictionary=@var{file}
@itemx -d @var{file}
Use the named dictionary.

@item --help
@itemx -h
Print an informative help message describing the options and then exit.

@item --ispell=@var{program}
@itemx -i @var{program}
Call @var{program} as Ispell.

@item --all-chains
@itemx -l
Ignored; for compatibility.

@item --number
@itemx -n
Print the line number of each misspelled word along with the word
itself.

@item --print-file-name
@itemx -o
Print the file name which contained the misspelled words on each line
before the word.

@item --stop-list=@var{file}
@itemx -s @var{file}
Ignored; for compatibility.

@item --verbose
@itemx -v
When a word is not found in its literal form in the dictionary, it is
printed.

@item --print-stems
@itemx -x
Ignored; for compatibility.

@end table

@node Example
@chapter Example
@cindex example
@cindex sample

Using GNU Spell is quite simple.  Here's an example, which you can try
when in the directory of Spell's source code.

@example
$ spell --print-file-name --number sample
sample:1: Tihs
sample:1: si
sample:1: fo
sample:1: Splel
sample:1: worsd
sample:1: spellled
sample:1: worng
sample:2: fi
sample:2: cna
sample:2: dael
sample:2: fiel
sample:2: Foo
sample:2: bza
sample:2: baz
@end example

The words printed on standard output are all the (purposely) misspelled
words in @file{sample}.  Notice the options @samp{--print-file-name} and
@samp{--number} (@pxref{Invoking Spell}).  They are responsible for the
prefix you see on each line, @samp{sample:@var{lineno} }.

@node Problems
@chapter Problems
@cindex bugs
@cindex problems
@cindex suggestions

If you find a bug in GNU Spell, or have any questions, comments, or
suggestions about it, please send electronic mail to
@samp{bug-gnu-utils@@gnu.org}.  When sending bug reports,
include the version number, which you can find by running @w{@samp{spell
--version}}. 
The Savannah bug tracker for @command{spell} is located at
@url{http://savannah.gnu.org/bugs/?group=spell}.
Also include in your message the operating system you are
using, the output that the program produced, the output you expected,
which options you invoked Spell with, and any other details that you
think may be useful.  Keep in mind that facts are more usually more
helpful than guesses.@refill

@node Copying
@chapter Copying
@cindex copying

GNU spell is licensed under the GNU GPL, which makes it @dfn{free
software}.

The ``free'' in ``free software'' refers to liberty, not price. As
some GNU project advocates like to point out, think of ``free speech''
rather than ``free beer''.  In short, you have the right (freedom) to
run and change spell and distribute it to other people, and---if you
want---charge money for doing either.  The important restriction is
that you have to grant your recipients the same rights and impose the
same restrictions.

This general method of licensing software is sometimes called
@dfn{open source}.  The GNU project prefers the term ``free software''
for reasons outlined at
@url{http://www.gnu.org/philosophy/open-source-misses-the-point.html}.

This manual is free documentation in the same sense.  The
documentation license is included below.  The license for the program
is available with the source code, or at
@url{http://www.gnu.org/licenses/gpl.html}.

@menu
* GNU Free Documentation License::
@end menu

@node GNU Free Documentation License
@section GNU Free Documentation License

@include fdl.texi


@node Index
@unnumbered Index

@printindex cp

@bye

